---
title: "Aliens - where are they?"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Aliens
  - Space
  - Humans
---


Aliens - where are they? I am always and will be forever fascinated thinking about the existence of otherworldly creatures - how they would look like? How do they communicate with each other? How advanced they might be? I strongly believe that they do exist somewhere deep in our endless space, being busy with their own lives, building a Dyson sphere or repairing a spaceship that travels with the speed of light, chilling out in the open terrace ( if that's a thing in their planet) thinking about the existence of otherworldly creatures just like me writing about them.

Humans, as we know it is probably one of the most basic living beings on this fucking big universe. No matter how advanced we think we have become - taking the grand scheme of things in perspective we're still very weak and fragile. If the aliens we search for are a more weak breed of living beings, we both wouldn't be able to communicate with each other and say - Hey! We are here. Want some chips?. If the aliens we are trying to find out are too advanced, they might not be even interested in us, even if they know we exist.


It's fascinating to think about the consequences of a possible human-alien interaction. What would I ask an alien if I would ever meet one? Apart from the cliched questions such as Bhai mileage Kitna milega? I don't know. I probably wouldn't ask anything. We probably won't understand each other. If there is anything I could say to an alien will be :

"Without you, this whole universe seemed to be an awful waste of space till now! Not anymore."

Why do I think there are intelligent life forms outside our Earth?

1. Just as I said, this world is too big for us alone. Whoever created this setup could have easily built just the solar system, let alone the planet for us to survive and perish. Wasting resources on designing, implementing millions and billions of galaxies and stars, planets of different sizes stretching billions of light-years away - all for what? We possibly won't ever cross the milky way galaxy, let alone the solar system.

2. Most of us think that there is little to no chance of extraterrestrial life because the conditions for harbouring life outside earth is very limited. There is no oxygen, no water and no Netflix.. blah blah. That's mainly because of how skewed our understanding of life is all about. For many, wrapping their heads around the conventional definition of life and its parameters seems to be a foolish idea.  

What are the possibilities of Aliens invading our planet as we see on movies?

1. Nil. If at all an alien spacecraft reaches our planet, that would mean they have the technology and the know-how to bypass our knowledge of space-time continuum and intergalactic travel. To think that they will be here to steal our resources seems funny to me. I can relate it with the Arab sheikhs driving their supercars from the emirates to fill up fuel from a nearby gas station in my village, here in Kerala. 

2. A technologically and mentally advanced civilization might be more interested to compete with the equal, respect the powerful and to be compassionate with the weak. A kind of Nirvana as I see it. 

Will we get to see Aliens visiting us within our lifetime?

1. Probably not. We humans, are  TRL ( technology readiness level) 0.75 beings. If we strive hard for a couple of hundred years more, might become a TRL 1 civilization that might have the necessary technology and know-how to properly detect, analyze the intergalactic signals and reach a solid conclusion just enough to solidly state - They are out there!

2. Probably yes. The Aliens, if they feel like we should do a cameo in the movie called Earth, we will see them. 


We haven't made ourselves visible to anyone outside Earth just yet. Our first radio signals ever might just be less than 80 years old and it might not even have crossed the milky way. AN Alien with a giant dish, sitting in his home planet might have already picked those signals but since they are too weak to possibly make out anything from it, he might have discarded it as junk. Some aliens might know we are already here alive and kicking and will be sending Hello world back to us. Unfortunately, we might be missing them. The possibilities are endless. Even if we all have friends around, at the end of the day we are on our own. Just like the Aliens out there. Peace out!









